hi everyone laszlo Montgomery again
thanks for downloading this episode last
week the China history podcast featured
a little overview of the iching after I
finished that one I looked at my long
list of topics and after a little
fulmination i settled on adam solve on
bail the german jesuit missionary who's
featured in jonathan dispenses book to
change china this is the book that first
taught me about Sir Robert Hart it's all
about Westerners who went to China and
made a difference in some way so I
started reading up on a shawl and I
realized there's no way to do this
without bringing Matteo Ricci in and you
also can't talk about Shaw without
mentioning ferdinand four beasts so
today's podcast is about all three and
their collective contributions not only
to building Christianity in China but
also in serving as role models for
future generations of Westerners who
embrace China learn the language and
acted in the capacity of cultural
bridges between the west and China I
didn't want to do a podcast on the
Jesuit mission in China because that was
a little bit too big of a task to take
on looking at these three superstars
will most def give you the main idea
about the struggles of the Jesuits and
their sweet victories there are Matteo
Ricci on Adam solve on bail catholic
high schools and places of higher
learning all around the Roman Catholic
world their legacy cannot be
underestimated all the Sun ologist sup
great to near great repute Wade in Giles
James leg Roderick McPherson idem
Jacques journey Richard Wilhelm who we
discussed in the e Jing episode last
time John King fairbank Rui alley Simon
leis john de frances perry link
frederick moat Orville Schell Jonathan
spans Frederick Wakeman the list goes on
all these nineteenth and twentieth
centuries analogous all celebrated in
their day and all of them made
great contributions that we who study
China today are all the direct
beneficiaries but all these China
experts every one of them you know who
left their mark for the generations that
followed whose shoulders did they stand
on you know when I began studying
Mandarin just like almost everyone at
least in the USA I had the beginning
Chinese readers part 1 & 2 by john de
frances i had that to get me over the
initial hump into francis he was the
direct beneficiary of all the work done
by way Giles and leg but you know there
was a time when there weren't any
Chinese dictionaries trimmers or porn
books or anything for that matter
someone had to start at the beginning of
the beginning and unlock the complexity
of this great language by share brute
force and determination that's one of
the things the three men who we look at
today did all three of them most of all
matteo ricci they left behind a body of
work that later china scholars would
learn from and over the centuries layer
by layer the scholarship got better and
better and now here we are today in the
21st century of the tools that are at
our disposal on our smartphones
computers and computer tablets just
boggle the mind ontologically speaking
we might have to begin our story with
Michelle Ruggieri I don't know whose
shoulders he stood on when he became one
of the first Europeans to master the
language he was born in 1543 down there
the boots of Italia in Renaissance Italy
his early years were contemporary with
Michelangelo's last year's Michelangelo
of course living to the ripe old age of
89 in the 16th century no less that
ought to be considered one of his
greatest accomplishments ruji Ares
Chinese name was law being Jim all of
these guys all these Jesuits who went to
China they all sort of followed a
similar regimen is Ruggieri he became a
judge with priests and 1572
he was one of the cofounders of the
Jesuit mission to China it all began
with him history books called Michelle
Ruggieri the first Western sinologist I
know not whose shoulders he might have
stood on her who was there to help him
out but for all intents and purposes we
could call him the first he did many
things that were great but chief among
them was perhaps his co-authorship of
first Portuguese Chinese dictionary brew
GRE together with matteo ricci and
others left the port of Lisbon for China
all these voyages taken by these Jesuits
they all departed from Lisbon the
Reformation was in full swing and
millions had been turning their back on
the Catholic faith they were born into
some serious missionary work had to be
carried out to swell the devastated
ranks of the Catholic faith that's what
the China mission was all about but our
story today is about how they went about
achieving this objective it began with
Ruggieri who traveled a familiar path
lisbon to the malabar coast of india
which those 16th century days was a
portuguese stronghold there is where
Ruggieri began his chinese studies
within six months he was proficient
enough to start hearing confession in
Chinese in the summer of 1579 he then
traveled to Macau Macau had been given
to the Portuguese a mayor 20 years
before and this is where they had their
base and where much of the earliest
scholarship occurred knowing that he was
blazing a trail that others would follow
ruji reset up st. martin's house in
macau this school would later serve as
an institution for learning the chinese
language and culture both Ruggieri and
Ricci continued their mastery of the
language in Macau all the while itching
to get into the Chinese heartland to go
do God's work they knew that in Macau
they were merrily on the periphery they
had already saturated Macau a tiny on
clay
the big game was out yonder rue GRE like
Ricci solve on bail and verb East who
followed him was a natural-born salesman
every ounce of success they enjoyed
there was plenty of tragedy to was due
to their excellent character and the
sincerity with which they respected and
studied Chinese culture and language
they didn't defend they didn't do the
hard sell these guys were cool and easy
going and they told their Chinese hosts
they were there to learn and gain the
trust of the Chinese Roo GRE was the
first to begin straying from Macau and
heading into the heart of guangdong
province he slowly began to make his way
further and further north into the
province taking advantage of his fluency
in the language and the kindness and
respect he was showed wherever he went
he began to show up in Guangzhou and Joe
Ching he did a lot of PR work and once
he gained the acceptance of all those
government officials he was given
permission to set up a permanent mission
in cha-ching the Jesuits moved into
their new digs in 1583 and they were
often running the following year
Ruggieri published a practical Chinese
catechism this simple work proved
extremely effective in converting the
locals and giving them an idea what
Christianity was all about in 1583 to
1588 rue GRE with the help of Ricci
collaborated on a Portuguese English
Dictionary the first-ever Chinese
dictionary translated using the Latin
alphabet once you had this a Chinese
Portuguese dictionary it became like a
rosetta stone that could unlock the
language for any other European language
but as a tool for the earliest students
of Mandarin in the 16th century it was
invaluable there's nothing like a
dictionary to grease the wheels of
progress for Chinese language study as a
quick sidebar this work was somehow lost
to posterity but one day in 1934
was rediscovered and then later
published in 2001 in 1588 Ruggieri took
it upon himself to take a trip back to
Rome to appeal to the Pope to get more
serious about this China mission enta
send some sort of official embassy to
Beijing to appeal to the Emperor who in
this case was none other than the
long-reigning and ultra reclusive 1ly
Emperor he's one of the Ming Dynasty
Emperor's we looked at him and his
antics and CHP episode 34 so basically
our story today will straddle the end of
the Ming and beginning of the Ching for
Emperor's are mainly involved the two
Ming Emperor's Wan Li and Chun Chun and
the first two chain Emperor's not
including near Hachi that is the winter
Emperor and his son the Magnificent
kunshi these guys are all discussed in
the dynasty overview podcast numbers 34
and 35 so ruji aries trip back to Italia
was ill-fated he arrived in 1589 and in
quick succession Pope Sixtus the 5th
dies then urban the seventh lasts a year
then Gregory the 14th he doesn't last
too long same with innocent the knife so
from the time ruggieri landed in Italy
and 1589 was able to start making his
appeals to the Holy See until the time
he himself died in 1607 in Salerno Italy
you had eight pokes so these nine years
were terribly unstable Andrew Giri was
unable to get anyone to focus on this
and see the big picture and then
Ruggieri already in his late 50s early
60s which was old by the standards of
the day he got sick and then any
thoughts of going back to China were now
out of the question so when he left in
November 1588 he was never to return
again and there was still so much to do
fortunately there was still Matteo Ricci
known also by his Chinese name Lima dope
it will
ricci who had to step into ruji areas
big shoes Ricci fortunately knew exactly
what to do he had been in China long
enough to know like everyone else in the
world they had their own little
particular sensibilities and ways of
doing things and looking at things he
knew he had to tiptoe around all these
things and make sure not to set off any
alarm bells that might reflect poorly on
their overall mission first of all they
had to lay low about the real purpose
they were there to have gone out on a
street corner and preach like the
Reverend Billy Graham would have been
suicidal to their mission and to inform
their Chinese hosts that they were there
to preach and proselytize that wouldn't
have gone over well either reach he led
the Chinese on to believe that he and
his fellow missionaries were men of God
who had heard of the greatness and
perfection of the Chinese ways of living
and Chinese government and they were
merely there to study and learn and
hopefully live out their days in this
most perfect of places Ricci knew the
Chinese attitude up till now had been
there's nothing these Europeans seem to
have that we find useful or necessary
for that reason full-scale two-way trade
had hardly developed like it did
regionally in Asia like you know during
juncos times and of course for time
immemorial trade had been carried out
along the Silk Roads but up till Ricci's
time Europe still hadn't been able to
find any demand for their products Louis
Vuitton wouldn't open up his first
factory til 1854 so for the Jesuits to
march right in and say they have this
new great religion that China should
embrace and they'll get you into heaven
and everything no way this wasn't the
way to do it that would have been
horrific Lee presumptuous and
counterproductive to the max Ricci if
nothing else was subtle to the extreme
for example hanging on a wall inside the
Mission House in cha-ching which couch
Inc today is about a two-hour car ride
east of Guangzhou there was a very
he was painting of the Blessed Virgin
with the infant Jesus it was impossible
to enter the mission house and not see
this painting hanging there and of
course you know curiosity got the best
of whichever officials or whoever that
was it called on the Jesuits and they'd
inquire about the painting and ask you
know who the woman and child was you
know what reach you would say oh yeah
funny you asked you know this infant
child and so on and so forth and this is
how he did it always in roundabout
subtle ways the Chinese often had no
idea Ricci was working on them matteo
ricci and the Jesuits based in cha-ching
they had one other thing that endeared
themselves to the locals their greatest
asset besides their character and a
great amount of patience was all the
scientific and mathematical knowledge
contained in their heads also of great
interest were these little scientific
instruments maps and books and a myriad
of mechanical curiosities that just
delighted the Chinese so trying to draw
the locals in and gain their trust was
not that hard once they got settled the
local officials who of course were all
educated Confucian scholar elites of
their day they knew a good thing when
they saw it and they couldn't get enough
of these clocks musical instruments oil
paintings prints they were blown away by
the great leather bound books and the
cosmological diagrams geographic charts
and architectural works they contained
something they brought with on the
voyage to China that was
enthusiastically embraced were maps and
charts of the world the 16th century
Chinese had never seen these they knew
not what was out there still now this is
all 150 years after Jonathas voyages and
this goes against everything that Gavin
Menzies says but when Ricci presented
these works the Chinese of the day still
considered their empire to be the center
of the world so these maps were real I
openers like he did with almost
everything he brought with them Ricci
made a copy of this world map and
translated the Latin and
characters so this gave the Chinese
first look at this so-called 10,000
countries map a 1-quart tool that's how
they called the whole world they said it
was 10,000 countries the end result to
all of this was that the locals were
beginning to warm to the jesuits
especially matteo ricci who so
completely and sincerely embraced the
chinese life later on dressing and
living like any confusion mandarin you
might meet on the street he drew them in
with his unique personality his share
mastery of Chinese culture and all the
great works and of course the wisdom he
brought from a faraway land in which he
gave to them so freely he was the first
European to master classical Chinese as
well as Chinese writing can you imagine
today where everything in science and
technology is patented and protected six
ways to Sunday think about that for a
second these Jesuit priests freely gave
to their counterparts in China
everything that the Renaissance had
yielded to date nothing was held back
due to national security interests or
you know to protect trade they handed it
right over with humility and complete
willingness that's how they got everyone
to warm up to them and the system worked
he gained their trust and the respect he
didn't give them the hard sell and
because of his thorough knowledge of the
Confucian texts reaching was especially
good at always drawing these comparisons
between the Bible and the Chinese
classics this is how he time and again
used his mastery of the classics to
connect with the Chinese he came in
contact with he did do one thing though
that was gonna put him in a little hot
water Ricci knew that his success in
achieving the church's objective of
spreading the faith in China was an
uphill battle Ricci was well aware of
the values sensibilities and Chinese way
of looking at things so he sort of bent
the rules a little and wherever possible
he used his own judgment and you know
big picture view point when the people
back in
got wind of this it's going to cause
quite a bit of controversy the
competitors to the jesuits were the
Dominicans Franciscans and augustinians
and none of these guys had any intention
of deviating from the accepted Catholic
liturgy they went in and attempted to
convert the Chinese using the same
manual used in the new world with native
peoples who though sophisticated were
hardly as advanced as the Chinese so
they were very unsuccessful they made a
big stink about the way Ricci and later
solve on bail and verb East we're all
going native and carrying out their
mission and the most unorthodox of
manners I'll speak more later about this
head-on collision that ultimately
happened and what the consequences were
one of the problems the Jesuits and
later all Christian movements in China
faced was that from time to time some
official would rise to power somewhere
in the food chain in China and this
official or Mandarin would be openly
hostile to Christianity or to the
Europeans in general these hostile
officials depending on their connections
and their ability to wield power were
always causing all kinds of setbacks for
the missionary movement one such setback
hit Ricci and August of 1589 local
mandarins who had an axe to grind with
the Jesuits had them forcibly evicted
from their safe house and cha-ching
Ricci and his jesuit brothers they ended
up in shao kuang which then was called
shall jo this is about a four-hour car
ride north of cha-ching not that rich he
had any wheels bet then therein shall
Guan reach he adopted the lifestyle of
the Chinese gentleman literate asst he
busied himself with a translation of the
four books the sushi these were the
Confucian classics that formed the core
of the system the great learning
doctrine of the mean the Analects and
the monkeys Dasha jeongyeon Lulu and the
month in july 1592 there were more
headaches for Ricci when his residence
and shall Guan was attacked him he was
injured though not mortally
in 1595 reach he tried and failed to
open up a mission in nanjing but he
didn't go away empty-handed he did get
the go-ahead to open up a permanent
mission and a church in nam cheong in
genesee products two years later the
powers that be in Rome formally
appointed Ricci as the head of the China
mission but Beijing remained the Holy
Grail so to speak as far as how Ricci
looked at everything making a beachhead
in the capital was going to be the key
to their success or failure he knew
after so much trial and error that the
only way they were gonna succeed was by
planting roots in Beijing and working
from the top down to spread Christ's
word and so he set his sights on Beijing
and waited for his chance his first
attempt in 1598 met with failure but he
caught a break when the political
climate in Nanjing took a turn in favor
of the Jesuits and they were allowed
into Nanjing 1598 was also the air the
revised Portuguese Chinese dictionary
came out this one with tones and
syllables printed unfortunately this
work has been lost to posterity it was
invaluable in its day and provided no
small amount of assistance to all those
students of Mandarin who followed in
Matteo reaches wake already the
dictionaries were getting better now all
along while this is all happening in the
1590s Ricci is publishing one treaties
and scholarly work after another the
Chinese scientists astronomers
mathematicians of the day if they didn't
hate him and feel threatened by him they
were to a man in complete awe of Ricci's
knowledge finally in May the Year 1600
Ricci's dream comes true and the Wan Li
Emperor extends an invitation to him to
come to Beijing Ricci never met the
Emperor in person that would have been
against protocol but they carried on a
relationship nonetheless through their
proxies Ricci and his entourage arrived
in Beijing in january of 1601 i can only
imagine a freezing cold
and when their travel weary wagon train
rolled into town like the natural-born
salesman that he was matteo ricci
reached into his bag of tricks and
presented the Emperor with all his
greatest mechanical devices pieces of
art curiosities of all kind and of
course the famous mechanically intricate
European clocks that always broke the
ice at parties but the topper of all
toppers that the Wadley Emperor got the
greatest kick out of was a map of the
world was his first time to see China's
geographic location in relation to all
the states who paid tribute at one time
or another and to see who else was out
there wen zhang chen came back in 126 bc
and proclaimed to the Emperor han will d
that china wasn't the only big guy under
heaven he didn't come back with a map
now for the first time a chinese emperor
at a cop a gander at a map of the world
that showed china's approximately a
graphic position in the world now the
top men of science in china all resided
in beijing and they worked for the
Emperor when Ricci mingled with these
learned men in China he displayed his
mastery of cosmology mathematics
astronomy geometry cartography mechanics
you name it it was Ricci who brought
trigonometry to China and from this
Chinese benefited immensely his
reputation of course preceded him but
seeing it for the first time it created
quite a stir in the Chinese academic
community and Ricci proceeded to use an
effective combination of this personal
skill set and the act of freely passing
on knowledge to ready and eager minds as
his way of penetrating the bubble and
converting just as he had hoped from the
top down Ricci labored for the rest of
his days in China and translating
Christian texts and writing simple and
effective works that made Christianity
more accessible to the Chinese this was
especially true of his work the Chen Chu
sure Lou the true doctrine of God
this simple and elegant work a Chinese
translation of award begun by rew Giri
gave the Chinese a real catechism that
was written in such a way that it
wouldn't repulse or turn them away it
plainly taught about the existence and
the unity of God the creation and the
immortality of the soul which is
rewarded or punished in the afterlife
Ricci was particularly effective in
supporting his words by drawing
parallels from the Chinese classics it
became a sort of missionary handbook for
a long time as one of the stories go
when the kanji Emperor read this book in
1692 this was what opened up his mind
and made him so tolerant to the Jesuits
and come she's grandson that she and
long Emperor although history has
branded him a kind of a persecutor of
the Christians he kept his book in his
personal library so things were looking
up for Matteo Ricci he had to bend the
rules a lot and did his best to keep his
detractors at bay but nobody could call
him a slouch he already had permanent
missions and Beijing Nanjing nanchang
shao kuang and in 1608 they received
permission to open a mission in shanghai
he had a beautiful church in beijing the
cathedral of the immaculate conception
still there today but rebuilt of course
the Jesuits really enjoyed a great leap
forward with the conversion of leading
shirt Lee Paul he was a renowned
military leader of his day and a
well-respected Fung Shui in iching
expert he came over to the Catholics
side it became a zealous Christian
Matteo Ricci thought he knew all the
tricks but it was leading sure who gave
Ricci all the tricks of the trade as far
as how to make a connection with the
locals his advice and the industry of
his Labor's to preach the word resulted
in a great influx of local Chinese
looking to be baptized now part of the
deal back in those days if you were
anyone like the young shirt you had
quite a lot of books many of which were
forbidden and Catholicism so in order to
show your commitment and your sincerity
you would symbolically burn all these
prized and precious books from your
library the good Lord only granted
matteo ricci 57 years on this earth and
he died in Beijing on May 11 16 10 27
years he had spent working for the
jesuit mission in china although there
were many others like matteo ricci who
followed him it is his name most of all
that we remember the rules back then
said all foreigners had to be buried in
Macau and couldn't be buried China but
in consideration of Mateo Ricci's
unprecedented contribution to astronomy
the Chinese calendar mathematics
cartography and for the whole kit and
caboodle of the body of knowledge he
handed to his Chinese hosts on a silver
platter in Chinese the one Lee Emperor
selected a Buddhist temple nearby as
Ricci's burial ground this today is
jalan cemetery in the Shi Tong district
of Beijing the oldest Christian cemetery
in China the three subjects of today's
podcast are all buried there well sort
of where once 60 other prominent clergy
46 foreign missionaries and 14 Chinese
priests are also buried Ricci's journals
were sent back to Rome where they were
translated into many languages and
proved to be an invaluable source of
information about China one of the
things Ricci was able to confirm beyond
a shadow of a doubt to his fellow
Europeans was that the mythical cafe of
Marco Polo's travels wasn't fact one in
the same as China up until then this was
not known for certain the next one to
rise to the occasion was the German
Johann Adams oven Bell known more
popularly as Adams shawl his Chinese
name was tongue roll one he was born
near cologne and may first 1592 a time
when Richie was busy and shall gwaan
working on his translations of the four
books he went through a similar regimen
as Ricci before the Society of Jesus
elders recognized his mastery of
mathematics and astronomy they decided
he was most suitable to be sent to China
shawl arrived in
macao together with another great Jesuit
scholar priest Johann Shrek in 1619
Ricci had been dead for nine years
already when shawl arrived to Macau was
a period when the Christians were again
in the doghouse persecutions beginning
in 1616 forced solve on bail and all
other Jesuits to remain in Macau so it
was there in Macau that shawl and Shrek
boned up on their Chinese and the
sciences the Jesuits turned a victory
against the Dutch into an opportunity
the cannon technology they used was
instrumental in defeating the invading
Dutch who were intent on seizing Macau
and this got the attention of the
Emperor he was really feeling the heat
from the Manchus was interested to see
what these European cannon could do to
help him keep the Manchus at bay shawl
and his team took the trip to Beijing
and wouldn't you know it the minister up
there who was the most hostile of them
all had just been dismissed shawl was
cut from the same cloth as Ricci he
adopted all Ricci's ways as far as dress
and how he composed himself in front of
the Chinese he read and mastered all the
classics like Ricci he knew how to work
a crowd and networked something fierce
Shrek's area of specialty were the life
sciences medicine botany biology he was
renowned all over Europe for his work
not only for this but also for his
amazing linguistic abilities he made his
way to China going first to Hangzhou and
then on to Beijing where he worked on
the Chinese calendar when he died in
1630 shawl was called in to take over
Shrek's work on this all-important
Chinese calendar the Chinese calendar
was intricately tied into the whole
legitimacy of not only the Emperor but
the dynasty as well so getting it right
and exact was all-important it wasn't
enough to get close the calendar needed
to be precise and over time this is
exactly what shawl von Bell did for the
imperial court
using his smarts he calculated an exact
calendar that showed the position of the
stars for each day and he constructed a
stellar hemisphere knowing this was just
as important to the Ching dynasty court
as it was to the Ming you see shawls
specialty was astronomy the magnitude of
his knowledge of astronomy in the way he
freely dispensed with this knowledge and
dared himself to the scholarly elites of
the main court it was his entire grasp
of astronomy and how he applied this to
the work in perfecting the Chinese
calendar that held him in the highest
esteem on june 23rd 1629 he predicted
the solar eclipse even more accurately
than his Chinese counterparts for this
shawl was then put in charge of the
project of calendar reform he was the
top guy while he busied himself with
this all important task he worked on
producing Maps astrolabes all kind of
other scientific instruments he was even
given permission to build an observatory
within the Forbidden City compound
things were looking up the Jesuits were
on a roll in January 1639 the Chong Chon
Emperor presented a tablet to Adam Shaw
that said I the Emperor praised and
protect the teaching from heaven which
is what they called it back then well
1639 is anyone who already listened to
CHP episode 34 can tell you was five
years away from the end of the Ming
Dynasty so these weren't the best of
times in 1644 the Ming fell and in came
the Manchus whom thankfully for the
Jesuits were quite tolerant of them in
their teachings the Jesuits were to have
a good run with the manchu qing rulers
until the powers in rome decided to
shoot themselves in the foot in the
whole shebang and China came crashing
down but right now things were great
Shaw was made the director of the board
of astronomers that Xin Tian Jin and
then in 1648 he became supervisor of the
Jesuit residence in Beijing the infant
Emperor Xuan jure upon reaching the age
of 30
began a close friendship with Shaw
despite shawl subtle attempts the should
injure Emperor never became a Christian
but the friendship between shawl and the
Emperor allowed for smooth sailing for
the cause Christianity in China many a
time when things look dire shawls
closeness to the Emperor saved many
Christians and missionaries in 1658 Shah
was made a Mandarin of the first class
but as it happened time and again once
everything started to look like nothing
could possibly stop them the schrodinger
ever dies young in 1661 at the age of 23
incidentally it was Shah who it advised
the Emperor Xuan sure that the best pick
for a successor was probably his
six-year-old son who we would later know
as the Kangxi Emperor this was the
golden time for the Jesuits in China
Kang she was a great supporter of the
Jesuits in China and was most tolerant
of them at least for a while things got
pretty dicey for the Jesuits as they
fell victim to you know the whole gamut
of court politics factional backbiting
between 1659 and 1664 the Jesuits at
court were under a two-prong attack from
not only the Chinese scientist faction
who probably resented their presence and
on top of this they were also feeling a
great amount of heat from the
conservative Jesuits who argued that
Shah was going way too far with the way
he you know carried out the whole and
culture a shin of the faith so the
Jesuits always had to be looking over
their shoulder the Jesuit fathers in
Europe they knew that Shah was too
critical to the success of the mission
so for the time being they left him
alone finally when the detractors of the
Jesuits at court felt that time was
right they went on the attack Shaul as
well as his fellow missionary scientists
were tried and convicted in 1661 of
trumped-up charges that said because of
their astronomical miscalculations
regarding an auspicious day for the
burial of the Emperor's
on it ultimately led to the death of the
Emperor's concert pretty serious charges
the bad guy here was a man named yang
guang Shin Young had a rocky career but
had somehow managed to make lemonade out
of the lemons life threw at him he
worked his way up the ladder until he
was able to take control of the Bureau
of astronomy now he was more of a poser
and a troublemaking mendler than a
scientist nonetheless he was able to
cause the Jesuits a great amount of
suffering and hardship once the SH
winter emperor had passed in 1661 the
young kangxi emperor had not yet reached
his majority it was ruled by four
regents we discussed the soul and CHP
episode 35 Ching dynasty part 1 the
Jesuits were all thrown into a prison
and for two months endured no small
amount of cruelty torture hardship for
they were sentenced to death by
strangulation in 1665 this punishment
was considered too light a sentence
considering the severity of crimes young
Gwang shins intense dislike for these
men of God knew no bounds he made a big
deal about the sentence and so instead
it was changed to death by slicing then
wouldn't you know it divine intervention
perhaps three disasters happen in quick
succession there was this terrible
earthquake on April 16 1665 followed by
a brilliant meteor that was observed
streaking across the sky followed by a
mysterious fire in the Forbidden City
that burned down the site that was
chosen for the execution and with that
the Jesuits were all released from
prison but exiled to Guangzhou and then
to Macao but shawl didn't fare well in
prison was mortally ill by this time he
later died in Beijing may 15 1665 in
1669 Kang she came into his majority and
upon learning that the calendar still
had some miscalculations in it called
for a contest to once
for all settle this matter who was more
accurate the Western astronomers and
scientists or China's own therefore the
Emperor called for a public competition
to settle this once and for all the
contest was to be held in beijing and
the two sides were given three problems
to solve first they had to predict the
length of a shadow cast by a type of a
sundial of a given height at noon
exactly on a given day next they had to
figure out the absolute and relative
positions of the Sun and planets on a
given date last they had to predict the
exact time not the approximate time of a
lunar eclipse and the kangxi emperor
said let heaven be the judge of this one
now let's introduce the third person
Ferdinand four beasts he was born in
october nine john lennon's birthday but
in 1623 he was 30 you he was 31 years
younger than Shaw the reach he was
Italian Shaw was German and ver beast
was Flemish born not too far away from
Flanders like shawl he was a
mathematician and astronomer
extraordinaire in just as shawl was
friends with the Schrodinger Emperor
fair beasts enjoyed such a friendship
with kangxi in fact he served as a
teacher to the Emperor giving him
lessons and geometry philosophy and
music he was known in China as a nun
hydron unlike Ricci and shawl who
welcomed the chance to go to the Far
East ver beasts he had his sights set on
the new world where the Spanish were
thriving and their mission to convert
the natives he left Lisbon in 1658
arriving in Macau 1659 in the midst of
all the hardships the Jesuits were
experiencing in Beijing at the hands of
young gwang Sheehan his first posting
was up in shaanxi province but in 1660
he was called down to Beijing to aid
Adam shawl in his hour of need during a
trial shawl had suffered a stroke so he
was severely debilitated it could hardly
defend himself against the onslaught of
the Chinese led by young gwang cheb ver
beast spoke for shawl at the trial and
later carried out the calculations that
would answer the three challenge
is presented by emperor kangxi ver beast
had a major ace up his sleeve that young
gwang shen didn't know about see
remember 17th century Europe produced an
explosion of new data thanks to the work
of a few guys named Galileo Johannes
Kepler and Tycho Brahe well that's how
my astronomy teacher in college
pronounced it most of you probably
remember these names and the collective
contributions they made the 17th century
to not only the telescope to mathematics
and astronomy as well ver beast was
holding the latest charts and
astronomical tables that Kepler had come
up with he also had the aid of the
latest telescopes produced by Tycho
Brahe it turned out to be a turkey shoot
Yang Guang Shan was exposed and
sentenced to the same punishment
originally meted out to the Jesuits this
was later commuted to life in exile and
Jung Hwan Shen died shortly thereafter
ver beast was reinstalled as head of the
mathematical board and director of the
observatory he was able to compile an
exact and correct calendar to the kangxi
emperor and he suggested that the
present calendar that had been fudged
for so many years needed to have one
month taken out and then some minor
adjustments and it would be fine I have
to say again the calendar was
intricately tied into the whole matter
of the Emperor's legitimacy it
controlled all the rights rituals and
just about everything that happened in
the imperial palace once Jung Hwan Shen
was done away with and the Jesuits were
all brought back from disgrace a golden
period began for the Jesuits mission in
China the Mandarin and Manchus speaking
for beasts became close with kang xi the
Emperor gave berbice carte blanche to
preach anywhere the missionaries wanted
throughout the 1660 70s and 80s their
beast was a veritable beehive of
activity inventing all kinds of
mechanical devices such as the first
steam-powered car in the manufacture of
weapons of war like cannons he also made
great contributions to the chain court
he did a whole bunch of things like
composing a table that would predict all
solar and lunar eclipses for the next
2,000 years thanks to the technology of
the day and the state of mathematics
this wasn't it difficult to do anymore
he continued to design one astronomical
instrument after another and proved to
be a direct channel for all that the
renaissance in europe had to offer in
1668 he successfully convinced the
Emperor to grant a complete and total
rehabilitation of the late Adam Shaw
Shaw was later interred next to Matteo
Ricci in jalan cemetery Beijing
Ferdinand four beasts died shortly after
being thrown from a horse he was buried
March 11 1668 alongside Matteo Ricci and
Adam shelve on bail in jalan cemetery he
became the only Westerner in Chinese
history to be granted a posthumous name
by the Emperor in 1692 came the kangxi
Emperor's edict of toleration that said
quote the Europeans are very quiet they
do not excite any disturbances in the
provinces they do no harm to anyone they
commit no crimes and their doctrine has
nothing in common with that of the fall
sex in the Empire nor has it any
tendency to excite sedition we decide
therefore that all temples dedicated to
the Christian God in whatever place they
may be found ought to be preserved and
that it may be permitted to all who wish
to worship this God to enter these
temples offer him incense and perform
the ceremonies practiced according to
ancient custom by the Christians
therefore let no one henceforth offer
them any opposition I'm sure Matteo
Ricci Adam shawl and Ferdinand ver beast
were all smiling in heaven from about
1600 until their total suppression in
1773 the Jesuits are practically the
only source in all of China for
knowledge about western advances in
astronomy geometry and trigonometry
because all of these men were viewed as
men of higher learning and that they
appeared civilized in every way
inoue the social customs in China they
were embraced by those Chinese who came
into contact with them they served as
the role models for all who followed
showing how to bridge the two cultures
of China and the West they served all
their lives in China as bridges between
these two parts of the world and all
those who followed such as Sir Robert
Hart who we covered in CHP episode 58
could look to these sixteenth and
seventeenth century Jesuits and see how
effective they could be in China by
embracing Chinese culture rather than by
fighting or rejecting it Adam Shaw and
Sir Robert Hart interestingly both
served about 47 48 years in China later
everything fell apart and all the
groundbreaking achievements of the
Jesuits up until this time died with a
papal decree from pope clement the 11th
the chinese rights controversy was now
in full swing by the turn of the century
1700 the Orthodox forces in Rome had
always fought against the ways used in
the Chinese mission to you know allow
for some Chinese sensibilities to
manifest themselves and the Catholic
faith and practice by the locals finally
it all came down to three main issues
the conservatives led by the Dominicans
and Franciscans put their foot down and
said first the Chinese word for God
should be 10 jul the Chinese didn't like
this word selection and so the Jesuits
said it you know had been okay to use
the more acceptable word of ten you know
meaning heaven or the word shank deep
meaning Lord of above or supreme Emperor
that was you know acceptable to the
Chinese Chinese Catholics also could no
longer participate in any of the
Confucian rights they had to give this
up but lastly the Dominicans and
Franciscans said there could be no more
ancestor worship and there was zero
wiggle room for any of this the Chinese
Catholics had to take it all or take
nothing no matter how hard the Jesuits
tried to plead their case arguing that
these work you know minor points and
simply social serum
he's practiced by the Chinese all fell
on deaf ears in January 1707 Pope
Clement the 11th Leggett presented this
prohibition of the Kangxi Emperor
basically saying there was no room in
Catholicism for adapting it for Chinese
customs and traditions therefore comes
she issued his own decree in 1721 in
response to what Pope Clement issued
that said quote reading this
proclamation I have concluded that the
Westerners are petty indeed it is
impossible to reason with them because
they do not understand the larger issues
as we understand them in China there is
not a single Westerner versed in Chinese
works and their remarks are often
incredible and ridiculous to judge from
this Proclamation their religion is no
different from other small bigoted sets
of Buddhism or Taoism I have never seen
a document which contains so much
nonsense from now on Westerners should
not be allowed to preach in China to
avoid further trouble and that my
friends was that 17 42 pope benedict the
14th issued a decree dat lasted until
nineteen thirty-eight and it left no
room for any chinese adaptations of the
Catholic faith it was what it was and
you took it all you took nothing 1772
Pope Clement the 14th dissolved the
society of jesus and this golden period
of cultural religious and scientific
cooperation between the Chinese and the
Jesuits came to an end this falling out
didn't cause the end of Christianity in
China we're all familiar with the trials
and tribulations of the missionaries the
nineteenth and twentieth centuries
during the Boxer Rebellion in 1900 the
graves of the jesuit missionaries at
jalan cemetery were all desecrated and
the bones of all these holy men
scattered and disrespected by the boxers
when it was all over everything was sort
of put back together until nineteen
sixty seven when during the heat of the
cultural revolution the Jalan cemetery
once again face the madness and mayhem
of the student Red Guards there's an old
story that tells of the day the Red
Guard leaders visited Jalan cemetery and
ordered that these three stone steelies
that mark the graves of Ricci shawl and
fir baste be smashed and destroyed or
else the authorities back then who ran
the cemetery they they ran for cover and
they asked for guidance from the Beijing
party committee you know what to do with
this matter gentlemen live he had been
able to use his pull to save a lot of
things but he wasn't able to do anything
in this case so the Red Guards you know
they had warned so you better smash
these graves or else when we come back
in three days you know we're gonna smash
your heads or something by another
miracle perhaps the authorities at Jalan
cemetery were somehow able to create a
ruse whereby they got the Red Guards to
sign off on simply digging three deep
holes in the ground and burying these
tablets they miraculously agreed and
this is exactly what was done until the
Cultural Revolution was over then it was
safe to you know dig them out of the
ground and restore everything to how it
was you could go visit the cemetery
today still in Beijing in all you
amazing expats in China speaking such
beautiful Mandarin and other dialects
stop a moment and think about these
three guys as well as other Jesuits who
were the earliest collaborators and
scholars of the language it was there
early work that served as the foundation
from which so much of the study of
Mandarin has been built so the next time
you open up your cleco app on your
iPhone or iPad or peruse whatever
Chinese text books dictionaries or
whatnot take a moment and think of Ricci
shawl and ferb East when you look at a
beautiful and magnificent structure you
never get to see the foundation but
everything above ground rests on that
foundation and that's where I'm going to
put the bookmark in this is
very courageous and amazing story and
what these three guys did in unlocking
the door to this elegant and magnificent
language and making it accessible for
all those who followed is you know
really a great story it wasn't just
these three men there were many other
pretty missionaries and religious men it
wasn't just these three men were many
other priests missionaries men of God
this episode was simply an overview of
the times and by introducing these man I
hope I was able to give you a little
taste of what this time was all about I
bought Jonathan Spence's the memory
palace of Matteo Ricci with the
intention to include that in to today's
episode as well but this is going to be
have to be a future standalone podcast
on its own so I'll hold that for another
day will do number 99 next time already
got that topic selected and then for my
hundredth episode i'll upload that
one-hour chat athan with mr. ray harris
jr of the history of world war two
podcasts that we recorded when we were
together here in claremont during the
labor day weekend ray by the way has the
history of World War two podcast in the
app form it's only available in the
iTunes Store but go check that out if
you like that podcast who doesn't this
one ran way long sorry about that every
now and then this happens you sort of
get to podcasts for the price of one
this is laszlo Montgomery the China
history podcast wishing you all the very
best all the time join me next week
won't you for another exciting episode
of the China history podcast